humanity will once again visit the moon
the mission is planned for 2024. in this
crew we'll see the first women step on
the moon
the main goal is to establish a lunar
base for continued research
that will help nasa prepare for an
upcoming mission
to mars has been planning a crude flight
to the red planet
set for the 2030s robotic rovers did a
good job exploring the martian surface
but astronauts will have to dig deeper
to find evidence of water
and any fossils proving microscopic life
was once
possible on our planetary neighbor
new data on earth-like planets since its
launch in 2009
the kepler space telescope has
discovered lots of exoplanets
orbiting distant stars some of them have
an earth-like mass
composition and orbits nasa plans to
launch a new generation of telescopes in
the 2040s
they'll help us find real twins of our
planet and even get pictures of their
surfaces
the return of halley's comet it'll be
another
41 years before we once again see the
most famous comet in the sky
halley's visits us every 75 years
so some will manage to see it twice in
their lifetime
the longest solar eclipse 166 years from
now
i'll still be around then the sun will
go dark for 7 minutes and
29 seconds this is pretty close to the
predicted maximum
it'll also be the longest eclipse human
civilization has ever witnessed
in its 10 000 years
arrival of the most notorious asteroid
1950 d.a was once the most probable
candidate among near-earth
objects we know to actually strike the
planet
fortunately the chance was later
estimated to be not even
a tenth of a percent it'll most likely
pass by
on march 16 2880 mark your calendars
and it'll become solid evidence that
we're safe for a while
the asteroid is more than a mile in
diameter enough to take out life on a
planet
a new north star the earth spins like a
top
watch one of these toys closely and
you'll see how its tip starts to draw
circles in the air
the earth's axis an imaginary line going
through the poles
goes full circle once every 26 000 years
it points at different stars along the
way thus changing the north star
by the year 3000 the gamma suffistar
will share this title with polaris as
the earth's axis will point
right between them the first near-earth
supernova and teres is the 15th
brightest star in the night skies
it's also an old red supergiant 12 times
larger than the sun
stars this massive age to a point where
they collapse
in on themselves producing huge
supernovas
for antares this will happen just 10 000
years from now
which is nothing for a 12 million year
old star
the resulting burst will be too far away
to affect life on this planet negatively
but the light show will be visible here
on earth even during the day
message to the universe delivered
arecibo
is the encoded message describing
humanity life on earth
and the advancement of our scientific
knowledge it was broadcast from the
arecibo radio telescope
and aimed at the center of the m13
cluster
25 000 light years away from us in 25
000 years
it'll finally reach its destination
a new closest star about 36 000 years
from now
the ross 248 star will become our new
closest neighbor
it'll be just three light years away
from us and overtake the title from
proxima centauri
which is a bit more than four light
years away ross 248 will remain the
nearest star for around 9
000 years and then move away once again
so you didn't like the neighborhood or
what
the first interstellar human-made object
in 40 000 years voyager 1 will reach a
point within 1.5
light years of the gliese 445 star
it successfully reached interstellar
space in 2013
but unfortunately it won't be able to
power up any of its systems somewhere
beyond the year 2025.
voyager 1 has a message too a recording
of greetings in 55 languages
music from classical to rock and roll
and sounds of the earth's wildlife
a bear saturn one hundred thousand years
from now
saturn will lose its beautiful rings
it'll happen gradually over time
as the planet's colossal gravity pulls
rocks and
ice from this belt floating around it
they'll all eventually
fall and get crushed and burned by
saturn's atmosphere
well how rude the ring system is in the
middle of its life cycle
so we're incredibly lucky we got to see
it in its full glory
the most frightening supernova the wr
104 star will burst into a supernova in
three thousand years
this star is 75 000 light years away
from us
and the blast won't touch us at all but
there is
a small chance it'll also produce a
gamma ray burst in the process
if this stream of energy happens to aim
right at us
it will negatively affect life on earth
good news
scientists say that's very unlikely
colliding moons the moons of uranus are
part of a highly unstable system some of
them have orbits that cross
paths uranus already has two rings of
debris from
past collisions of its natural
satellites destimona and cressida will
crash
into each other in the next million
years and produce
new rings a star
too close for comfort the rogue gliese
710 star is approaching our solar system
and it will get just one light year away
in 1.3 million years
this won't have a major impact on the
planets but it could disturb the
so-called orc cloud
which surrounds our solar system and is
full of comets
from earth the star will look like the
brightest planets we see now
and we'll see many more comets in the
skies
the closest star to ever go supernova
within a few million years the spica
star which is only 240 light years from
us
will burst into a supernova supernova
are a problem for life when they're
three times closer than that
but the supernova itself will shine in
the earth's skies as bright as a full
moon
a time capsule for future generations
the lagios logios1
satellite was launched back in 1976 to
gather information
about the exact shape of the earth and
tectonic plate movement
but it also contained information about
civilization on earth at the time
it'll re-enter our atmosphere in 8.4
million years
if humanity is around then they'll learn
how life on earth was in our time
well at least how it was some 40 years
ago
rings for mars mars moon
phobos orbits really close to the
surface and it continues to get two feet
closer every century
50 million years from now it'll collide
with mars
resulting in a massive amount of debris
going into orbit
and forming a ring system around the red
planet
oh can't wait for that
days on earth will get longer now really
1.4 billion years ago the moon was much
closer to our planet
it made the earth rotate faster so the
day was only 18 hours
the moon is continuously moving away
from earth
in 180 million years we'll gain
one extra hour in a little over 2
billion years
a day on earth will be 36 hours long
no more solar eclipses 600 million years
into the future
the moon will move away from the earth
too far to cover the sun during eclipses
those will become ancient relics
the sun will get too bright it'll take
about a billion years for the sun to
raise its luminosity by 10
this will be devastating for planets in
the solar system
and life on earth won't be possible
beyond this point
by then our species will likely have
found a new planetary home
the sun will swallow the inner planets
in 5 billion years the sun will begin to
evolve
into a red giant growing hundreds of
times its current size
it'll swell up so much it will
eventually engulf
mercury venus and possibly earth
the new goldilocks habitable zone may
shift to the orbits of jupiter and
saturn
this process will take a bit under 3
billion years
until the sun reaches its maximum size
after that our star will shrink into a
white dwarf
the most epic event ever around the same
time
our sun is swelled up the nearest
neighboring galaxy
andromeda will come too close to the
milky way
if we could watch our galactic neighbor
at this time it'll get larger and larger
as it approaches
then the two galaxies will start to
merge
bright blue stars will burst into life
new constellations will form
the two spiral galaxies will now be a
single giant elliptical one
wow i've set an alarm on my smartphone
so i don't miss it